I'll analyze the paper to identify the 5 most relevant references for code implementation of the RecDiff model, focusing on 
technical depth and implementation value while avoiding the paper's own implementation.

{
    "selected_references": [
        {
            "rank": 1,
            "title": "LightGCN: Simplifying and Powering Graph Convolution Network for Recommendation",
            "authors": ["X. He", "K. Deng", "X. Wang", "Y. Li", "Y. Zhang", "M. Wang"],
            "year": "2020",
            "relevance_score": 0.95,
            "citation_context": "Taking inspiration from the success of simplified Graph Neural Networks [8], we utilize a 
lightweight Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) as the graph encoder in our social denoising framework.",
            "key_contributions": [
                "Simplified GCN architecture without feature transformations",
                "Efficient message propagation framework",
                "Layer combination strategy"
            ],
            "implementation_value": "Essential for implementing the base GCN encoder component of RecDiff. The paper directly 
references this work for its graph encoder implementation, making it crucial for understanding the foundational architecture.",
            "original_reference": "[8] X. He, K. Deng, X. Wang, Y. Li, Y. Zhang, and M. Wang. Lightgcn: Simplifying and 
powering graph convolution network for recommendation. In SIGIR, pages 639-648, 2020."
        },
        {
            "rank": 2,
            "title": "Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models",
            "authors": ["J. Ho", "A. Jain", "P. Abbeel"],
            "year": "2020",
            "relevance_score": 0.90,
            "citation_context": "The parameter βt controls the magnitude of the noise. It has been shown that by gradually 
increasing βt for t = 1,...,T, the noised data Et converges to complete Gaussian noise as t increases [9].",
            "key_contributions": [
                "Core diffusion model architecture",
                "Forward and reverse process implementations",
                "Noise scheduling strategy"
            ],
            "implementation_value": "Critical for implementing the diffusion model component of RecDiff, including the forward 
noise addition process and reverse denoising process. The paper heavily relies on this work's diffusion framework.",
            "original_reference": "[9] J. Ho, A. Jain, and P. Abbeel. Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. NeurIPS, 
33:6840-6851, 2020."
        },
        {
            "rank": 3,
            "title": "Neural Graph Collaborative Filtering",
            "authors": ["X. Wang", "X. He", "M. Wang", "F. Feng", "T.-S. Chua"],
            "year": "2019",
            "relevance_score": 0.85,
            "citation_context": "State-of-the-art social recommendation methods typically utilize GNN-based encoding functions 
on collaborative graphs and social graphs to learn representations for users and items.",
            "key_contributions": [
                "High-order connectivity modeling",
                "User-item interaction graph construction",
                "Embedding propagation mechanism"
            ],
            "implementation_value": "Provides detailed implementation for graph-based collaborative filtering mechanisms needed
for the interaction modeling component of RecDiff.",
            "original_reference": "[30] X. Wang, X. He, M. Wang, F. Feng, and T.-S. Chua. Neural graph collaborative filtering.
In SIGIR, pages 165-174, 2019."
        },
        {
            "rank": 4,
            "title": "BPR: Bayesian Personalized Ranking from Implicit Feedback",
            "authors": ["S. Rendle", "C. Freudenthaler", "Z. Gantner", "L. Schmidt-Thieme"],
            "year": "2009",
            "relevance_score": 0.80,
            "citation_context": "The embeddings are finally used by a predicting function Pred(·), such as the dot-product 
operation, to output predictions r̂u,v for user-item interactions.",
            "key_contributions": [
                "Pairwise ranking optimization",
                "Implicit feedback handling",
                "Personalized ranking metric"
            ],
            "implementation_value": "Essential for implementing the training loss and ranking optimization components of 
RecDiff's recommendation system.",
            "original_reference": "[22] S. Rendle, C. Freudenthaler, Z. Gantner, and L. Schmidt-Thieme. Bpr: Bayesian 
personalized ranking from implicit feedback. In UAI, pages 452-461, 2009."
        },
        {
            "rank": 5,
            "title": "DiffNet: A Neural Influence Diffusion Model for Social Recommendation",
            "authors": ["L. Wu", "P. Sun", "Y. Fu", "R. Hong", "X. Wang", "M. Wang"],
            "year": "2019",
            "relevance_score": 0.75,
            "citation_context": "Deep learning-based social recommender systems, such as DiffNet [37], RecoGCN [40], and KCGN 
[10], leverage Graph Neural Networks to effectively model the connections between users and items.",
            "key_contributions": [
                "Social influence diffusion modeling",
                "Layer-wise influence propagation",
                "Dynamic user representation learning"
            ],
            "implementation_value": "Provides implementation insights for social influence modeling and propagation mechanisms 
needed in RecDiff's social graph component.",
            "original_reference": "[37] L. Wu, P. Sun, Y. Fu, R. Hong, X. Wang, and M. Wang. A neural influence diffusion model
for social recommendation. In SIGIR, pages 235-244, 2019."
        }
    ],
    "analysis_summary": "The selected references provide crucial implementation components for RecDiff: LightGCN and NGCF for 
the graph encoder architecture, DDPM for the diffusion model framework, BPR for the ranking optimization, and DiffNet for 
social influence modeling. These papers offer detailed technical implementations that are directly relevant to RecDiff's key 
components while avoiding the paper's own implementation. The selection prioritizes papers with strong implementation value and
technical depth, particularly focusing on the graph neural network, diffusion model, and recommendation system aspects."
}